.Dd February 17, 2015
.Dt NMLC 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm NMLC
.Nd A compiler from NML code to NFO and/or GRF files.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nmlc
.Op options
.Op file
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
.It Fl c
Crop extraneous transparent blue from real sprites.
.It Fl u
Save real sprites uncompressed to GRF files. This saves a lot of time
during encoding but it's not recommended when creating a file for
distribution since it makes the output file substantially bigger.
.It Fl \-grf Ns = Ns Ar file
Write output in GRF format to <file>.
.It Fl \-nfo Ns = Ns Ar file
Write output in NFO format to <file>.
.It Fl \-nml Ns = Ns Ar file
Write output in NML format to <file>.
.It Fl \-output Ns = Ns Ar file | Fl o Ar file
Write output to <file>. The output type is detected from the extension
of the filename. It must be one of nfo, nml or grf.
.It Fl \-md5 Ns = Ns Ar file
Write an md5sum of the resulting grf to <file>.
.It Fl \-debug | Fl d
Print a dump of the AST to stdout.
.It Fl \-version
Print programme's version number and exit.
.It Fl \-help | Fl h
Print usage information.
.It Fl \-stack | Fl s
Dump stack when an error occurs.
.It Fl M
Output a rule suitable for make describing the graphics dependencies of the main grf file (requires input file or \-\-grf)
.It Fl \-MF Ns = Ns Ar file
When used with \-M, specifies a file to write the dependencies to
.It Fl \-MT Ns = Ns Ar file
Target of the rule emitted by dependency generation (requires \-M)
.It Fl \-custom\-tags Ns = Ns Ar file | Fl t Ar file
Load custom tags from <file> [default: custom_tags.txt].
.It Fl \-lang-dir Ns = Ns Ar dir | Fl l Ar dir
Load language files from directory <dir> [default: lang].
.It Fl \-default\-lang Ns = Ns Ar file
The default language is stored in <file> [default: english.lng].
.It Fl \-sprites\-dir Ns = Ns Ar dir | Fl a Ar dir
Store 32bpp sprites in directory <dir> [default: sprites].
.It Fl \-start\-sprite Ns = Ns Ar num
Set the first sprite number to write (do not use except when you output
nfo that you want to include in other files).
.It Fl \-palette Ns = Ns Ar palette | Fl p Ar palette
Force nml to use the palette <pal> [default: ANY]. Valid values
are 'DOS', 'WIN', 'ANY'.
.It Fl \-quiet
Disable all warnings. Errors will be printed normally.
.It Fl \-cache\-dir Ns = Ns Ar dir
Cache files are stored in directory <dir> [default: .nmlcache].
.It Fl \-clear\-orphaned
Remove unused / orphaned items from cache files.
.It Fl \-verbosity Ns = Ns Ar level
Set the verbosity level for informational output [default: 3, max: 4].
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The language reference at
.Pa http://newgrf\-specs.tt\-wiki.net/wiki/NML:Main
.Sh AUTHOR
NML was written by Albert Hofkamp, Christoph Elsenhans, Jasper Reichardt, Ingo von Borstel,
José Soler and Thijs Marinussen.
.Pp
This manual page was originally written by Thijs Marinussen.
